E-Commerce Data Analysis Project (SQL & Power BI)
Project Overview
This project focuses on analyzing e-commerce transaction data to uncover insights into sales performance, customer behavior, and operational trends. The analysis uses SQL for deep-dive querying and Power BI for visual storytelling.
ðŸ› ï¸ Tech Stack
Database: [e.g., MySQL / PostgreSQL / SQL Server]
Visualization: Power BI Desktop
Analysis Language: SQL (Structured Query Language)
ðŸ” SQL Analysis Portfolio
The following queries were developed to extract key business insights from the Ecommerce table:
1. Basic Inventory & Sales Tracking
Full Data View: SELECT * FROM Ecommerce;
Niche Filtering: View only specific categories (e.g., Toys).
sql
SELECT * FROM Ecommerce WHERE product_category='Toys';
Use code with caution.

Sales Performance: Total items sold across all categories.
sql
SELECT SUM(quantity) AS total_product_sales FROM Ecommerce;
Use code with caution.

2. Customer & Market Insights
Gender-wise Sales: Analysis of order volume and total spend by gender.
Age Demographics: identifying which age groups place the most orders.
Geographic Focus: Counting sales and total revenue per city.
sql
SELECT city, COUNT(quantity) AS city_max_sales, SUM(total_amount) AS total_amount
FROM Ecommerce GROUP BY city ORDER BY city_max_sales DESC;
Use code with caution.

3. Operational & Payment Trends
Payment Methods: Identifying the most popular payment types.
Device Usage: Tracking if customers prefer ordering via Mobile, Tablet, or Desktop.
Discount Strategy: Finding which categories receive the highest individual discounts.
4. Top Performers (KPIs)
High-Value Products: Top 3 sales by total amount.
Customer Satisfaction: Top 3 products based on customer ratings.
ðŸ“Š Power BI Implementation
To turn these SQL queries into a dashboard:
Connect Data: Open Power BI Desktop and select Get Data > SQL Server.
Data Transformation (Power Query):
Ensure the date column is formatted correctly (Standard ISO: YYYY-MM-DD).
Note: In your original code, the filter BETWEEN '2023-01-01' AND '2023-31-01' may cause errors in some systems; use '2023-01-31' as the end date for January.
Key Visuals to Build:
KPI Cards: Total Sales, Average Order Value (AOV), and Total Customers.
Donut Chart: Sales breakdown by Payment Method or Gender.
Bar Chart: Product Category vs. Total Quantity Sold.
Map Visual: City-wise distribution of total revenue. 
ðŸš€ How to Run
Import your dataset into your SQL environment.
Run the provided queries to verify data integrity.
Load the table into Power BI to view the interactive dashboard.
